# ADA2019009_Zoi_Zipela_20200521
Recording Christoph Cox's lecture from 00:35:40 to 00:42:53

00:36:11

So if you anyone have been to this space, it’s a very powerful and overwhelming space. Some people I know absolute adore it, could spent hours in there, other people I know couldn’t spent fifteen seconds in this space. So it’s very really sort of powerful and overwhelming space, in the way that the new house time square despite the fact that it’s drown pieces, it’s a very different kind of experience.
At the same time, as young and new house, who developing their sound installations, Eliane Radigue, came much more famous later on, as a minimal composer, was producing her first sound installations, which she called sonic propositions or sonic proposals. You’ ll noticed all of these, a lot of figures, these are looking for other language to describe what they do sound installation, art of noises, sonic propositions. And she would often her pieces would often set up in relationship to or connection with a visual artist’s works. So in this exhibition called “one more night” and Eliane Radigue composed the sound installation called "OMT", which is a version of one more night as a construction of it. Eliane Radigue worked primarily with feedback and tape recorders. She initially made music concrete works working with Pier Shefer and Shefer is partner…..from she was an assistant, but eventually she turned away from that only land her two tape recorders to help with editing his work and she became really fascinating by feedback effects, that would be generated between these two tape recorders and so she composed this piece and I’m sorry I don’t have a version of this, I only have it on LP and didn’t have the chance to make a digital copy. She would make this sort of long beautiful drowing pieces that with very kind of small microshits  and she would put them on she have variations of them on three different tape recorders and she set the tape recorders to different tape speeds and so were run continuously and the idea is that you couldn’t really make a recording of these pieces, because they were, you know, they are different, depending on how she decided to fix the parameters. So another really important figure who often in the history of sound artists kind of thought of his purely just a composer and an installation artist which she was.

00:39:02

So I want to all these installations certainly revealed the influence of  J.Cage, in the experimental music. But I think they also owe a lot to developments in the visual arts during the 1960s. I don’t think it’s coincidental that sound installation emerged during precisely the years that the art world witness what Lucy Lippard called “ The dematerialization of the art object”. For artist such as Joseph Costuf and Lawrence Weiner, this meant a turn away from the production of objects to a production of ideas or words to express them, right? That is totally conceptual art. Other artists   such as Robert Berry, Hanchaka and others take a very different way form the art object toward the expiration of the material processes. This latter group was often influenced by  J.Cage, who in the 1957 lecture objected to the conventional musical composition on the grounds that what we produce was fixed, as he put it, time objects. These objects that are fixed in time. Instead he advocate that artists take inspiration from nature and instead compose what he called purposeless processes, right? Nature doesn’t have a purpose, it just runs… and Cage’s famously said that art has to imitate nature and her manner of operation, so imitate that kind of purposelessness. When artists  was to that crocs of all of these developments, of conceptual art, of post minimalism, Cage experimentalism was Robert Morris. He in the 1961 composed this, a composition as well produced this piece called “ Box with the Sound of it’s Own Making”, which is a piece which is exactly as it’s title suggest. It’s a piece that in which Morris recorded the sounds of his buildingness  fairly  generic box out of wallnot. The story goes they were relative young artists, invited Cage to his studio because he was very excited to show Cage this piece and he said: Here is this piece that I made and this box with sound of his own making, isn’t that cool? Whatever… and Cage said: I would like to be quite  and I really wanna listen and apparently sat there for follow three hours of the piece, which it is very impressed Morris. Morris wasn’t alone in his interest in sound. Lot of conceptual artists produces important sound works. Robert Berry, Michael Asher, Bruce Newman, Arten Lungage, Christine Kozlov, lot of artists was sort of interesting moving away from the art objects. Sometimes towards sound, sometimes toward concept idea and language. And I think it’s these contexts that we have to consider Alvin Lucier’s classic piece “I am sitting in a room from 1970s”

00:42:04 

This is a wonderful self reflexive piece, it’s a variant on the kind of texts scores, that through fluxus and conceptual art became prominent  in the 1960s. This piece consists simply of four sentence description of it’s process, written on a tape recorder and playback in the room repeatedly, until  the resident frequencies characteristics  of that particular space, amplify on another overwhelm the sounds of speech. This is  the text an I am gonna play you first of the full text, actually I’ll play you part of the texts, and then I’ll play you the various iterations as it goes along. So the texts, the original texts sound something like this…

00:42:52  
